# Attendance Policy

## Intents and Values

Every opportunity must be afforded an employee to live wholeheartedly at work
and at home.  We believe that allowing employees to bring themselves to work is
the best investment we can make into our employees, before professional
development and other perks.  We believe that being employed and resourced
based on personal commitments is superior to using shame or a complex
disciplinary policy to enforce a set of rules.  As such, we ask all employees
to proactively communicate their commitment to a shedule and to any change to
that schedule, as soon as possible.  A failure to effectively communicate
schedule changes or to meet commitments may be grounds for dismissal if not
corrected.

## Schedule

All employess will need to make a calendar and share it with their
supervisor(s).  Use your published calendar to commit to your work days and
times.  Keep it up to date.  That is your schedule.


## Communication Standards

#### Tell your team.

If you will be late to or absent from your committed work schedule, please
contact:

* your supervisor

* any client or client representative that you planned to see during the period
  where you will instead be absent

* especially, your teammates or pair

#### Tell them soon.

Failure to meet commitments within one hour *without notice* is not acceptable.
Please send your notification email within an hour of your scheduled start time
to let us know if you will be late or absent.

It is your responsibility to make sure we are aware if you will be unable to
work, as soon as you know and are able.

#### Communication is a priority.

Furthermore, it is preferred that you arrive 2 hours and 10 minutes late,
rather than to arrive merely 2 hours late without an email.  Please take the
time to send an email if you will be substantively late.  Even for relatively
insubstantial lateness, please send a text message or `$something` if safety
permits.  Do not type text messages while driving, or riding a two-wheeled
vehicle of any kind.

#### Keep your team in the loop.

Please notify your team of any significant changes to your calendar if and when
you make them.

## Hours and Requirements

* All time will be "flex" time and scheduled according to an employee's best
  discretion.

* Please plan to work 40 Hours, and bill no less than 32 hours on
  client-billable work, as-available.

* Please account for your 20% time, any networking events or meetups where you
  mention the company, etc, along with other reported times.

***special note:*** The above points, in aggregate, *imply discretionary 20%
time* to be decided by the individual.  Resourcing should be established on
assumption of no more than a 32-hour week, and the specifics of such resourcing
should be clearly communicated to the sentient resources whose responsibility
it is to schedule theirown 20% time.

A policy (formal or informal) should probably be established for deciding on
what qualifies as 20% time and what, when it dovetails somewhat with business
needs and/or gets suggested by supervisory/administration personnel, qualifies
as 20% time (or not).

## Overtime and Comptime

You will not be expected to work more than 40 hours on any company-related task
and will not be compensated in any additional way for working overtime.  If it
is important to client delivery that additional time be spent, please make sure
we are aware of any overtime.  Please report any client request for overtime,
in writing, and in context.

## PTO

There are currently no set limits on paid time off or vacation time, but please
get approval from a supervisor before taking time off for a personal day,
vacation, or other non-emergency event.  Please add time off to your calendar.

## Sick Time

There is currently no limit to sick time.  It would be preferred that you
utilize sick days rather than exposing others to illness.

You may work from home.  If sick time can be made up, please make it up.

## Work From Home

Work from home is permitted so long as it serves company and client goals for
effective and timely delivery, within the context of individual capabilities
and circumstances.

We will provide facilities, such as we are able, to allow all members of teams
to work in a common, public space.
